## What is needed to graduate from an Open Seeds - OLS cohort

These are the requirements to be able to graduate from the Open Seed programme by Open Life Science:

Having had at least 4 (out of 8) mentor-mentee meetings (The Open Seeds program includes 8 mentor-mentee meetings in total). 
A “yes” from its mentor(s). What should a mentor consider? The mentor(s) should analyse if the mentee(s) have or have not made consistent efforts to advance their projects, and show interest in the topic of open science and willingness to advance the goals of open science in their work as researchers. 
Note: this does not mean that participants have to complete their project, or execute it as planned. It’s fine to change directions, or even decide the project isn’t needed - so long as genuine thought went into it. 
Open Canvas discussed with their mentor. 
Mission statement discussed with their mentor. 
Roadmap discussed with their mentor. 
Having participated in at least one cohort call and/or co-working/cafeteria/q&a session. 
Having completed the mid term survey for project leads/mentees. 
Give a 5 minute presentation in one of the graduation ceremonies. If it is a group project, we would like to see all project members present during graduation. 

What we expect from you at the graduation
A 5 minutes presentation & you being ready to answer questions from fellow participants.  
We want to hear about your project, the progress you have made, the hurdles you encountered, and what comes next. If you want, use the chance to invite others to join you as collaborators or advisers. 
Try to use the OLS template Open Seeds and OLS logos in your presentation https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1575V9FZXgQA5DXkGRKYiRHbdR5D_QZWWFdwpYST6NWI/edit#slide=id.g21280744133_2_2 
If you participated as part of a team, we would prefer if all members of your team get to present during the graduation ceremony. 

Reminder
Do remember to attend one of the graduation rehearsals, so you can get feedback and ideas for your presentation. For OLS-7, check the times here: https://openlifesci.org/ols-7/schedule/ 
Your name as a graduate 
If you graduate, you can call yourself an Open Seeds sprout or Open Seeds Plántula or Germoglio… etc (see below)

In Portuguese: “broto”, a young plant = muda or mudinha
In Spanish: “plántula”
In French: 
In Italian: Germoglio
In Russian: Проросток
In Hebrew: 
In German: Spross
(add)

What happens if you can’t attend any ceremony but want to graduate? 

You can record your presentation and we can reproduce it during one of the graduation ceremonies. 

What happens if you do not graduate? 

Those who don’t graduate, can they say they participated? You can say you participated, but did not complete it. 
Can you apply again to OLS? Yes, you can apply again with another different project. 
Can you come back to OLS, in the next cohort with the same project? You eventually can. We would ask your mentor what he/she/they think about it. 
